Israeli forces have intensified their
attacks in the Gaza Strip killing dozens
of civilians Israel's military campaign
against Hamas is gradually shifting to
the south of the strip where hundreds of
thousands of displaced Palestinians have
fled Hamas is an islamist militant group
considered a terrorist organization by
the EU and the US a warning this report
contains graphic
images a frantic search for survivors in
the aftermath of an a strike on an
apartment in Rafa in gaza's
South an injured baby girl is among
those pulled from the
wreckage her Rescuers race her to
hospital where other injured children
are
[Applause]
arriving we escaped from northern Gaza
and are staying at my sister's house we
came here to Rafa and then they hit the
neighbor's house which collapsed onto us
we came from the north because they said
we'd be safe here I wish we'd been
marted there hadn't left hadn't come
here more than 80% of Garin are
estimated to have been forced from their
homes now Israel's strikes are
intensifying in packed areas where many
were told they'd be
safe Israel has confirmed it was
responsible for a Christmas Eve strike
on maazi refugee camp it said it quote
regretted the harm caused to uninvolved
civilians for the bombing which killed
dozens while many Israelis support the
war efforts there are growing calls for
an end to the Bloodshed with hundreds of
Arabs and Israelis rallying together in
Tel
Aviv this br is about
H Arab people and Jewish
people standing
together and we live here together in
this country and I believe that we have
to live here
together and I do believe that we can
live peacefully together Israelis
Palestinians U Muslims Jews and
Christians this is
everybody's the only solution is to
recognize that both people
are entitled to a life of
Freedom the death toll from the fighting
in Gaza has now pass 21,000 people most
of them women and children according to
the Hamas run Health
authorities DW's Tanya Kramer joins me
now from Jerusalem Tanya since the
beginning of this war Israel has been
telling gazans to move to the south of
the strip suggesting they could find
safety there but the South doesn't
appear any safer than the rest of the
territory well absolutely and we've been
seeing this now the campaign of course
Israel is striking across the Gaza Strip
in the north and in the South and also a
lot of people who might think of going
back to the north they would not be able
to find most likely their homes intact
many people have been displaced multiple
times according to the United Nations
about an estimated 1 .9 million people
out of the population of 2.2 million
people have been several times now being
displaced and Israel is intensifying its
uh air strikes and ground operation in
the South as well people have been
called on to evacuate the center and the
South mainly D Al balak and also Khan
Yunis and the United Nations have said
that in the past days another 100,000
people have arrived in rafar which is uh
the most southern town in the Gaza a
strip that's on the border uh with Egypt
uh this place is already it's usually a
small Border Town uh totally overcrowded
humanitarian organizations have said
they have difficulties in bringing in
the age to people within Gaza basically
Distributing it because of the
intensified fighting and it also puts
more pressure on Egypt now we understand
Egypt has put out a new proposal for
talks on uh a ceasefire as well as the
release of hostages but it's unclear
where this stands the situation also for
the civilians now of course in Gaza with
the cold winter weather is uh is more
than
dire what can you tell us about public
opinion towards this war among Israelis
do they still supported Tanya the way
they did at the
beginning well I think there is still a
large support uh for uh the fight or the
the war on Hamas there is you know in
the mainstream here also in the media um
this is the main support we are seeing
there some other voices uh some smaller
anti-war protests but they are not the
main voices I think the main issue for
many uh uh Israelis is to bring uh the
uh Israeli hostages that remain in Gaza
to bring them home they believe to be
129 hostages uh still uh in Gaza but
there's also more criticism coming to
the surface that has always been there
against how uh the government is uh
conducting this war how they conduct
basically the uh hostage
negotiations if there are any and
especially this criticism is leveled at
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu his
popularity has plummeted uh but still
the war is going on but some of the
reent Paul said a lot of people a large
majority of Israelis would like to see
elections once this war is over but
again the war is continuing and a lot of
things can happen until this war
ends T thank you very much that was our
correspon Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem it's been nearly three months
now since hamas's terrorist attack on
Israel which killed more than 1100
people and sparked Israel's invasion of
Gaza as the people of Gaza face a
worsening humanitarian crisis what has
Israel's military accomplished in this
time and what still lies ahead DW's
William glucoft
explains Israel's military Chief of
Staff said this week that his country's
operation in Gaza will last many more
months Israel's stated goal is to wipe
out Hamas as an armed threat but many
analysts and policy makers including in
Israel doubt that is possible through
military force alone the IDF has itself
acknowledged the difficulty doing so but
are carrying out the orders it's been
given and let's have a quick look at
what those orders are now since Israel
first moved into Gaza with its Ground
Forces at the end of October it's mostly
focused on the northern part of the Gaza
Strip cutting it off through the middle
now there's still fighting going on
there but Israeli forces seem satisfied
enough with their level of control that
they want to push into Central and
Southern Gaza the biggest operation may
become Han Yunis it's a major urban area
now one possible Target could be yayat
sinoa he's the leader of Hamas in Gaza
whom Israel thinks is there his death or
capture would be a symbolic Victory but
will probably change little on the
ground now as the IDF pushes deeper into
Gaza more civilians will likely fall
victim to Israeli attacks around 1
million people fled from the North to
the South to avoid fighting that is what
Israel instructed them to do with
civilian deaths increasing by the day
and Gaza sealed off from all sides
people have few other places to go
Israeli officials have said they will
not go back to a pre- October 7th
security situation and they floated this
idea of a militarized buffer zone
between Israel and Gaza they say that
would prevent Hamas fighters from
getting anywhere close to Israel proper
ever again but that would also mean some
kind of reoccupation of Palestinian
territory on the ground which is
something allies like the United States
are against now Israel has plenty of
Firepower for this fight but no
guarantee that it can Crush Hamas or get
its remaining roughly 130 hostages back
alive no matter how long Israel's
military operation lasts ultimately the
question is a political one that Armed
Force can't answer on its own finding a
final status between Israel and the
Palestinians